# Online Camera Calibration by Tracking Single Point with Gyroscope
Camera and gyroscope take part in the standard hardware configuration of mobile devices and UAVs. Both these sensors are sensitive to angular variations. If the device rotates around itself, both the gyroscope and camera are affected. While a gyroscope measures the change in the orientation of the device explicitly, the rotation of the device shifts the image points implicitly. The amount of the shift is determined by the rotation and the camera parameters. Roughly, for the same rotation, image points shift more if the focal length is larger or vice versa. Thus, by measuring the rotation via a gyroscope, focal lengths and other intrinsic camera parameters can be estimated. Based on this hypothesis, in this work, we propose a novel camera auto-calibration method using a gyroscope. Unlike the other methods using homographies or optical flows on the images holistically, we use just a single point to track across multiple images and video frames. While other methods based on homography and optical flow need some definite assumptions on the scene, our method is applicable as long as any key point exists to track in the scene, far enough away from the camera. Therefore, competitive results are achieved in comparison with the homography-based methods. This flexibility makes it more robust and advantageous for an online calibration because visual data is the most unpredictable part of an online calibration.

## Author
- Okay Arık
